LIC’s AADHAAR SHILA (UIN: 512N309V01)
                    (A non-linked, with-profit endowment assurance life insurance plan)



LIC’s Aadhaar Shila Plan offers a combination of protection and savings. This plan is exclusively designed for female lives having Aadhaar Card issued by UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India). This plan provides financial support for the family in case of unfortunate death of the policyholder any time before maturity and a lump sum amount at the time of maturity for the surviving policyholder.


In addition, this plan also takes care of liquidity needs through its Auto Cover as well as loan facility.

  Benefits:Death benefit:On death of the Life Assured during the policy term provided all due premiums have been paid then: 


On death during first five years: “Sum Assured on Death” shall be payable.


On death after completion of five policy years but before the date of maturity: “Sum Assured on Death” and Loyalty Addition, if any, shall be payable.


Where “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as the highest of 
10 times of annualised premium; or
Sum Assured on Maturity as defined in 1. b) below; or
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death, i.e. 110% of Basic Sum Assured.


The death benefit shall not be less than 105% of all the premiums paid as on date of death.
Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount chargeable under the policy due to underwriting decision and rider premiums, if any.

  Maturity Benefit: On the life assured surviving to the end of the policy term, provided all due premiums have been paid, “Sum Assured on Maturity” along with Loyalty Addition, if any, shall be payable. Where “Sum Assured on Maturity” is equal to Basic Sum Assured.

  Loyalty Addition: Provided the policy has completed five policy years and atleast 5 full years’ premium have been paid, then depending upon the Corporation’s experience the policies under this plan shall be eligible for Loyalty Addition at the time of exit in the form of Death during the policy term or Maturity, at such rate and on such terms as may be declared by the Corporation. Under a paid-up policy, Loyalty Addition shall be payable for the completed policy years for which the policy was inforce.

In addition, Loyalty Addition, if any, shall also be considered in Special Surrender Value calculation on surrender of policy during the policy term, provided the policy has completed five policy years and atleast 5 full years’ premium have been paid. Optional Benefit: The policyholder has an option of availing LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider (UIN: 512B203V02). Rider sum assured cannot exceed the Basic Sum Assured.
For more details on the above riders, refer to the rider brochure or contact LIC’s nearest Branch Office. Eligibility Conditions and Other Restrictions :(This plan is only available for standard healthy lives without undergoing any medical examination) Minimum Basic Sum Assured per life* : Rs. 75,000Maximum Basic Sum Assured per life* : Rs. 300,000 The Basic Sum Assured shall be in multiples of Rs.5,000/- from Basic Sum Assured Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 1,50,000/- and Rs.10,000/- for Basic Sum Assured above Rs.1,50,000/-. Minimum Age at entry : 8 years (completed)Maximum Age at entry : 55 years (nearest birthday)Policy Term : 10 to 20 yearsPremium Paying Term : Same as Policy TermMaximum Age at Maturity : 70 years (nearest birthday)  
Date of commencement of risk: Under this plan the risk will commence immediately from the date of acceptance of the risk including minor lives.


* The total Basic Sum Assured under all policies issued to an individual under this plan shall not exceed Rs. 3 lakh.

  
Payment of Premiums:
Premiums can be paid regularly at yearly, half-yearly, quarterly or monthly intervals (monthly premiums through NACH only) or through salary deductions over the term of policy.


However, a grace period of one month but not less than 30 days will be allowed for payment of yearly or half-yearly or quarterly premiums and 15 days for monthly premiums.

  
Sample Premium Rates:
Following are some of the sample tabular annual premium rates (exclusive of service tax) per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured:

 
AGE/TERM	10	15	20
10	89.10	53.55	36.35
20	89.40	53.90	36.70
30	89.60	54.20	37.15
40	90.55	55.55	38.95
50	93.85	59.60	43.70
  
Mode and High Basic Sum Assured Rebates:
Mode Rebate:
Yearly mode - 2% of Tabular Premium
Half-yearly mode - 1% of Tabular premium
Quarterly, Monthly (through NACH) & Salary deduction - NIL


High Basic Sum Assured Rebate: 
Basic Sum Assured (BSA) Rebate (Rs.)
75,000 to 1,90,000 - Nil
2,00,000 to 2,90,000 - 1.50%o BSA
3,00,000 - 2.00%o BSA



  Revival: If premiums are not paid by the end of the grace period then the policy will lapse. A lapsed policy can be revived within a period of 2 consecutive years from the date of first unpaid premium but before the date of Maturity, as the case may be, by paying all the arrears of premium together with interest (compounding half-yearly) at such rate as fixed by the Corporation at the time of the payment, subject to submission of satisfactory evidence of continued insurability.


The Corporation reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept at revised terms or decline the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved by the Corporation and is specifically communicated in writing to the Policyholder.


Revival of rider, if opted for, will be considered along with revival of the Base Policy, and not in isolation.


The Revival Period and Auto Cover Period (as mentioned in para 8 below) shall run concurrently i.e. Auto Cover period does not extend period of revival.

  Paid-up Value: If less than three years’ premiums have been paid and any subsequent premium be not duly paid, all the benefits under the policy shall cease after the expiry of grace period and nothing shall be payable.


If at least three full years’ premiums have been paid and any subsequent premiums be not duly paid, the policy shall not be void but shall continue as a paid-up policy. However, under such policies Auto Cover Period as mentioned below shall be applicable.


Auto Cover Period:
“Auto Cover Period” under a paid-up policy shall be the period from due date of first unpaid premium (FUP). The duration of Auto Cover Period shall be as under:

  If at least three full years’ but less than five full years’ premiums have been paid under a policy and any subsequent premium is not duly paid: Auto Cover Period of six months shall be available.   If at least five full years’ premiums have been paid under a policy and any subsequent premium is not duly paid: Auto Cover Period of two years shall be available.

The benefits payable under a paid-up policy during Auto Cover Period shall be as follows:

  On death: Death benefit, as payable under an inforce policy, shall be paid after deduction of (a) the unpaid premium(s) in respect of the base policy with interest thereon upto the date of death, and (b) the balance premium(s) for the base policy falling due from the date of death and before the next policy anniversary, if any.   On maturity: The Sum Assured on Maturity under paid-up policy shall be altered to such an amount called “Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured” which shall be payable on Life Assured surviving to end of the policy term. The Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured shall be equal to [(Number of premiums paid / Total Number of premiums payable) x (Sum Assured on Maturity)]. In addition to the Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured, Loyalty Addition, if any, shall also be payable on maturity.

The benefits payable under a paid-up policy after the expiry of Auto Cover Period shall be as follows:

  On death: Sum Assured on Death under a paid-up policy shall be reduced to such an amount, called “Death Paid-up Sum Assured” shall be equal to [Sum Assured on Death * (Number of premiums paid / Total number of premiums payable)]. In addition to the Death Paid-up Sum Assured, Loyalty Addition, if any, shall also be payable on death after the expiry of Auto Cover Period.   On maturity: The Sum Assured on Maturity under paid-up policy shall be altered to such an amount called “Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured” which shall be payable on Life Assured surviving to end of the policy term. The Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured shall be equal to [(Number of premiums paid / Total Number of premiums payable) x (Sum Assured on Maturity)].In addition to the Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured, Loyalty Addition, if any, shall also be payable on maturity.

Under a Paid-up policy, Loyalty Addition , if any, shall be payable for the completed policy years for which the policy was inforce, provided the premium have been paid for atleast 5 full years and after completion of 5 policy years.


Rider shall not acquire any paid-up value and rider benefit cease to apply if policy is in lapsed condition.

  Surrender Value: The policy can be surrendered at any time provided premiums have been paid for atleast three consecutive years. On surrender of the policy, the Corporation shall pay the Surrender Value equal to higher of Guaranteed Surrender Value and Special Surrender Value.


The Special Surrender Value shall be determined by the Corporation from time to time subject to prior approval of IRDAI.


The Guaranteed Surrender Value payable during the policy term shall be equal to the total premiums paid multiplied by the Guaranteed Surrender Value factor applicable to total premiums paid under the policy. These Guaranteed Surrender Value factors expressed as percentages will depend on the policy term and policy year in which the policy is surrendered and are specified as below:



Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount if charged under the policy due to underwriting decision and rider premium, if any.

  Policy Loan: Loan can be availed during the policy term provided the policy has acquired a surrender value and subject to the terms and conditions as the Corporation may specify from time to time.


The interest rate to be charged for policy loan shall be determined at periodic intervals. For Financial Year 2016-17, the applicable interest rate is 10% p.a. payable half-yearly


The maximum loan as a percentage of surrender value shall be as under: 
For inforce policies – upto 90%
For paid-up policies – upto 80%


Any loan outstanding along with interest shall be recovered from the claim proceeds at the time of exit.

  Taxes: Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Govt. of India or any other constitutional Tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time.


The amount of Service Tax payable as per the prevailing rates shall be payable by the policyholder on premiums payable under the policy, which shall be collected separately over and above in addition to the premiums payable by the policyholder. The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan.

  Free look period: If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of the policy, the policy may be returned to the Corporation within 15 days from the date of receipt of the policy bond stating the reasons of objections. On receipt of the same the Corporation shall cancel the policy and return the amount of premium deposited after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for base plan and rider, if any) for the period on cover and stamp duty charges.

  Exclusion: Suicide: - This policy shall be void If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk and the Corporation will not entertain any claim except for 80% of the premiums paid, provided the policy is inforce.If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide within 12 months from date of revival, an amount which is higher of 80% of the premiums paid till the date of death or the surrender value, shall be payable. The Corporation will not entertain any other claim. This clause shall not be applicable for a policy lapsed without acquiring paid-up value and nothing shall be payable under such policy.

Note: Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount if charged under the policy due to underwriting decision and any rider premium.


Statutory warning:
“Some benefits are guaranteed and some benefits are variable with returns based on the future performance of your Insurer carrying on life insurance business. If your policy offers guaranteed returns then these will be clearly marked “guaranteed” in the illustration table on this page. If your policy offers variable returns then the illustrations on this page will show two different rates of assumed future investment returns. These assumed rates of return are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of what you might get back, as the value of your policy is dependent on a number of factors including future investment performance.”

BENEFIT ILLUSTRATION: 

Notes: The non-guaranteed benefits (1) and (2) in above illustration are calculated so that they are consistent with the Projected Investment Rate of Return assumption of 4% p.a. (Scenario 1) and 8% p.a. (Scenario 2) respectively. In other words, in preparing this benefit illustration, it is assumed that the Projected Investment Rate of Return that LICI will be able to earn throughout the term of the policy will be 4% p.a. or 8% p.a., as the case may be. The Projected Investment Rate of Return is not guaranteed.The main objective of the illustration is that the client is able to appreciate the features of the product and the flow of benefits in different circumstances with some level of quantification.

SECTION 45 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938 
The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 shall be as amended from time to time. The simplified version of this provision is as under:


Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 are as follows:


1. No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after expiry of 3 yrs from


a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.


2. On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in question within 3 years from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.


For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which such decision is based.


3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:
a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true;
b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c. Any other act fitted to deceive; and
d. Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be fraudulent.


4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of the case, it is the duty of the insured or his agent keeping silence to speak or silence is in itself equivalent to speak.


5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. Onus of disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or beneficiaries.
6. Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to expectancy of life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document basis which policy was issued or revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based.


7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on fraud, the premium collected on policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, within a period of 90 days from the date of repudiation.


8. Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus is on insurer to show that if the insurer had been aware of the said fact, no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured.


9. The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. So, this Section will not be applicable for questioning age or adjustment based on proof of age submitted subsequently.


[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and only a simplified version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, for complete and accurate details. ]


PROHIBITION OF REBATES (SECTION 41 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938 AS AMENDED BY THE INSURANCE LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015): No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer: provided that acceptance by an insurance agent of commission in connection with a policy of life insurance taken out by himself on his own life shall not be deemed to be acceptance of a rebate of premium within the meaning of this sub-section if at the time of such acceptance the insurance agent satisfies the prescribed conditions establishing that he is a bona fide insurance agent employed by the insurer.   Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees.Note: “Conditions apply” for which please refer to the Policy document or contact our nearest Branch Office.

 
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS / FRAUDULENT OFFERS


IRDAI clarifies to public that 
IRDAI or its officials do not involve in activities like sale of any kind of insurance or financial products nor invest premiums.
IRDAI does not announce any bonus.


Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint along with details of phone call, number.Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India
Central Office, Yogakshema,
Jeevan Bima Marg,
Mumbai – 400021.
Website: www.licindia.in
Registration Number: 512