LIC’s Jeevan Umang (UIN: 512N312V01) Policy Document attached file is in PDF Document Format(A non-linked, with-profit, whole life assurance plan) LIC’s Jeevan Umang plan offers a combination of income and protection to your family. This plan provides for annual survival benefits from the end of the premium paying term till maturity and a lump sum payment at the time of maturity or on death of the policyholder during the policy term.In addition, this plan also takes care of liquidity needs through loan facility.Benefits payable under an inforce policy:Death Benefit: On death of the Life Assured during the policy term, provided all due premiums have been paid thenOn death before the commencement of Risk: Return of premium/s paid without interest shall be payable.On Death after the commencement of Risk :Death Benefit, defined as sum of “Sum Assured on Death” and vested Simple Reversionary Bonuses (as mentioned in 2 below) and Final Additional bonus, if any, shall be payable.Where “Sum Assured on Death” is defined as the highest of
10 times of annualised premium; or
Sum Assured on Maturity; or
Absolute amount assured to be paid on death, i.e. Basic Sum Assured.This death benefit shall not be less than 105% of all the premiums paid as on date of death.Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount chargeable under the policy due to underwriting decision and rider premium(s), if any.Survival Benefit : On the life assured surviving to the end of the premium paying term, provided all due premiums have been paid, a survival benefit equal to 8% of Basic Sum Assured shall be payable each year. The first survival benefit payment is payable at the end of premium paying term and thereafter on completion of each subsequent year till the Life assured survives or till the policy anniversary prior to the date of maturity, whichever is earlier.Maturity Benefit:On the life assured surviving to the end of the policy term, provided all due premiums have been paid, “Sum Assured on Maturity” along with vested Simple Reversionary Bonuses (as mentioned in 2 below) and Final Additional bonus, if any, shall be payable.Where “Sum Assured on Maturity” is equal to Basic Sum Assured.Participation in profits : Depending upon the Corporation’s experience with regard to policies issued under this plan, the policy shall participate in profits during the policy term.During the premium paying term :Policies shall be eligible to receive Simple Reversionary Bonuses declared as per the experience of the Corporation during the premium paying term, provided the policy is in force.Final Additional Bonus may also be declared under an inforce policy in the year when such policy results into a claim by death. However, Final Additional Bonus shall not be payable under paid-up policy or on surrender of a policy during the premium paying term.In case the premiums are not duly paid, the policy shall cease to participate in future profits during premium paying term.After the premium paying term (applicable only for fully paid-up policies or for paid-up policies with Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured of Rs. 2 lakhs or more): Under a fully paid-up policy (where all premiums payable during the term of the policy are paid) or in a paid-up policy with Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured of Rs. 2 lakhs or more, the terms for participation of profits after the premium paying term may be in a different form and on a differential scale depending on the Corporation’s experience under this plan at that time.Final Additional Bonus may also be declared under the policy in the year when a policy results into a claim either by death or maturity. In addition, applicable Final Additional Bonus for surrendering policies, if any, shall also be included in Special Surrender Value calculation.Under a paid-up policy with Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured of less than Rs. 2 lakhs, the policy shall not participate in future profits.Optional Benefit: The policyholder has an option of availing following Rider benefit(s):LIC’s Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider (UIN: 512B209V01).LIC’s Accident Benefit Rider (UIN:512B203V02)LIC’s New Term Assurance Rider (UIN: 512B210V01)LIC’s New Critical Illness Benefit Rider (UIN: 512A212V01)Rider sum assured cannot exceed the Basic Sum Assured.For more details on the above riders, refer to the rider brochure or contact LIC’s nearest Branch Office.Eligibility Conditions and Other Restriction :Minimum Basic Sum Assured : Rs. 2,00,000Maximum Basic Sum Assured : No limit(The Basic Sum Assured shall be in multiples of Rs. 25,000/-)Premium Paying Term : 15, 20, 25 and 30 yearsPolicy Term : (100 – age at entry) yearsMinimum Age at entry : 90 days (completed)Maximum Age at entry : 55 years (nearest birthday)Minimum Age at the end of premium paying term : 30 years (nearest birthday)Maximum Age at the end of premium paying term : 70 years (nearest birthday)Age at maturity : 100 years (nearest birthday)Date of commencement of risk: In case the age at entry of the Life Assured is less than 8 years, the risk under this plan will commence either one day before the completion of 2 years from the date of commencement of policy or one day before the policy anniversary coinciding with or immediately following the completion of 8 years of age, whichever is earlier. For those aged 8 years or more, risk will commence immediately. Date of vesting under this plan: The policy shall automatically vest on the Life Assured on the policy anniversary coinciding with or immediately following the completion of 18 years of age and shall on such vesting be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and Life Assured.
Payment of Premiums:
Premiums can be paid regularly at yearly, half-yearly, quarterly or monthly intervals (monthly premiums through NACH only) or through salary deductions during the Premium Paying Term of the policy.However, a grace period of one month but not less than 30 days will be allowed for payment of yearly or half-yearly or quarterly mode and 15 days for monthly mode of premium payment.
Sample Premium Rates:
Following are some of the sample tabular annual premium rates (in Rs.) (exclusive of service tax) per Rs. 1000/- Basic Sum Assured:
AGE / PREMIUM PAYING TERM	15	20	25	30
20	80.30	54.55	39.95	31.15
30	80.30	54.55	40.20	32.05
40	80.30	54.80	42.30	35.10
50	80.30	58.90	-	-
Mode and High Basic Sum Assured Rebates:
Mode Rebate:Yearly mode - 2% of Tabular PremiumHalf-yearly mode - 1% of Tabular premiumQuarterly, Monthly (NACH) & - NILSalary deductionHigh Basic Sum Assured Rebate: Basic Sum Assured (BSA) Rebate on tabular premium(Rs.)2,00,000 to 4,75,000 Nil5,00,000 to 9,75,000 1.25 ‰ BSA10,00,000 to 24,75,000 1.75 ‰ BSA25,00,000 and above 2.00 ‰ BSAPaid-up:If less than three years’ premiums have been paid and any subsequent premium be not duly paid, all the benefits under the policy shall cease after the expiry of grace period and nothing shall be payable.If at least three full years’ premiums have been paid and any subsequent premiums be not duly paid, the policy shall not be void but shall continue as a paid-up policy till the end of policy term.The Sum Assured on Death under a paid-up policy shall be reduced to a sum called “Death Paid-up Sum Assured” and shall be equal to [(Number of premiums paid /Total number of premiums payable) * Sum Assured on Death].The Sum Assured on Maturity under a paid-up policy shall be reduced to a sum called “Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured” and shall be equal to [(Number of premiums paid /Total number of premiums payable)*(Sum Assured on Maturity)].Survival benefits under a paid-up policy : If Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured is less than the minimum Basic Sum Assured i.e. Rs. 2 lakhs, Survival Benefits shall not be paid under such policies.If Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured is equal to or more than minimum Basic Sum Assured of Rs. 2 lakhs, Survival Benefits equal to 8% of Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured shall be payable each year. The first survival benefit payment is payable at the end of premium paying term and thereafter on completion of each subsequent year till the Life assured survives or till the policy anniversary prior to the date of maturity, whichever is earlier.A paid-up policy shall not be entitled to participate in the future profits during the premium paying term, however, the vested Simple Reversionary Bonuses shall remain attached to the reduced paid-up policy. Further, if a paid-up policy wherein the Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured is Rs. 2 lakhs or more, continues after premium paying term, it may participate in future profits after the premium paying term, depending on the Corporation’s experience under such paid-up policies.Rider(s) shall not acquire any paid-up value and the rider benefit(s) cease to apply, if policy is in lapsed condition.Revival:If premiums are not paid by the end of the grace period then the policy will lapse. A lapsed policy can be revived within a period of 2 consecutive years from the date of first unpaid premium by paying all the arrears of premium together with interest (compounding half-yearly) at such rate as fixed by the Corporation at the time of the payment, subject to submission of satisfactory evidence of continued insurability.The Corporation reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept at modified terms or decline the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved by the Corporation and is specifically communicated in writing to the Life Assured.If revival period falls beyond the premium paying term and the policy is revived after the due date of survival benefit(s), then:-the unpaid survival benefit(s) (applicable in case of paid-up policy wherein the Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured is less than 2 lakhs) or;the difference between Survival benefits on full Basic Sum Assured and Survival benefits on Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured (applicable in case of paid-up policy wherein the Maturity Paid-up Sum Assured equal to or greater than 2 lakhs)shall be paid to the policy holder.Revival of rider, if opted for, will be considered along with revival of the Base Policy, and not in isolation.Surrender Value: The policy can be surrendered at any time provided premiums have been paid for atleast three consecutive years. On surrender of the policy, the Corporation shall pay the Surrender Value equal to higher of Guaranteed Surrender Value and Special Surrender Value.The Special Surrender Value is reviewable and shall be determined by the Corporation from time to time subject to prior approval of IRDAI.The Guaranteed Surrender Value payable during the policy term shall be equal to the total premiums paid multiplied by the Guaranteed Surrender Value factor applicable to total premiums paid. These Guaranteed Surrender Value factors expressed as percentages will depend on the policy term and policy year in which the policy is surrendered and are as specified below:      Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount if charged under the policy due to underwriting decision and rider premiums, if any.In addition, surrender value of vested Simple Reversionary Bonuses, if any, shall also be payable, which is equal to vested bonuses multiplied by Guaranteed Surrender Value factors applicable to vested bonuses. These Guaranteed Surrender Value factors in percentage will depend on the policy term and policy year in which the policy is surrendered and are specified as below:   Policy Loan: Loan can be availed during the policy term provided the policy has acquired a surrender value and subject to the terms and conditions as the Corporation may specify from time to time.The interest rate to be applied for policy loan and as applicable for full term of the loan shall be determined at periodic intervals. For loan sanctioned in Financial Year 2016-17, the applicable interest rate is 10% p.a. payable half-yearly for entire loan term.If loan is availed during the premium paying term: The maximum loan as a percentage of surrender value shall be as under:
For inforce policies- upto 90%
For paid-up policies- upto 80%If loan is availed after the premium paying term:The maximum permissible amount of new loan (where no previous loan taken earlier is outstanding) for policies which are entitled for survival benefits shall be arrived at in such a way that the effective annual interest amount payable on loan does not exceed 50% of the annual survival benefit payable under the policy.Any loan outstanding along with interest shall be recovered from claim proceeds at the time of exit.Taxes: Statutory Taxes, if any, imposed on such insurance plans by the Govt. of India or any other constitutional Tax Authority of India shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax as applicable from time to time.The amount of Service Tax payable as per the prevailing rates shall be payable by the policyholder on premiums payable under the policy, which shall be collected separately over and above in addition to the premiums payable by the policyholder. The amount of tax paid shall not be considered for the calculation of benefits payable under the plan.Free look period :If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of the policy, the policy may be returned to the Corporation within 15 days from the date of receipt of the policy bond stating the reasons of objections. On receipt of the same the Corporation shall cancel the policy and return the amount of premium deposited after deducting the proportionate risk premium (for base plan and rider(s), if any) for the period on cover, expenses incurred on medical examination, special reports, if any and stamp duty charges.Exclusion: Suicide: This policy shall be voidIf the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk, the Corporation will not entertain any claim under this policy except for 80% of the premiums paid, provided the policy is inforce. This clause shall not be applicable in case age at entry of the Life Assured is below 8 years.If the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide within 12 months from date of revival, an amount which is higher of 80% of the premiums paid till the date of death or the surrender value, shall be payable. The Corporation will not entertain any other claim under this policy. This clause shall not be applicable:In case the age of Life Assured is below 8 years at the time of revival; orFor a policy lapsed without acquiring paid-up value and nothing shall be payable under such policy.Note: Premiums referred above shall not include any taxes, extra amount if charged under the policy due to underwriting decision and any rider premium(s) other than Term Assurance Rider, if any.BENEFIT ILLUSTRATION: Statutory warning:“ Some benefits are guaranteed and some benefits are variable with returns based on the future performance of your Insurer carrying on life insurance business. If your policy offers guaranteed returns then these will be clearly marked “guaranteed” in the illustration table on this page. If your policy offers variable returns then the illustrations on this page will show two different rates of assumed future investment returns. These assumed rates of return are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of what you might get back, as the value of your policy is dependent on a number of factors including future investment performance.” Notes:The non-guaranteed (variable) benefits in above illustration are calculated so that they are consistent with the Projected Investment Rate of Return assumption of 4% p.a. (Scenario 1) and 8% p.a. (Scenario 2) respectively. In other words, in preparing this benefit illustration, it is assumed that the Projected Investment Rate of Return that LICI will be able to earn throughout the term of the policy will be 4% p.a. or 8% p.a., as the case may be. The Projected Investment Rate of Return is not guaranteed .The main objective of the illustration is that the client is able to appreciate the features of the product and the flow of benefits in different circumstances with some level of quantification. SECTION 45 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938 The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 shall be as amended from time to time. The simplified version of this provision is as under:Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 are as follows:1. No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after expiry of 3 yrs froma. the date of issuance of policy orb. the date of commencement of risk orc. the date of revival of policy ord. the date of rider to the policywhichever is later.2. On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in question within 3 years froma. the date of issuance of policy orb. the date of commencement of risk orc. the date of revival of policy ord. the date of rider to the policywhichever is later.For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which such decision is based.3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or by his agent, with the intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not believe to be true;b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;c. Any other act fitted to deceive; andd. Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be fraudulent.4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of the case, it is the duty of the insured or his agent keeping silence to speak or silence is in itself equivalent to speak.5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. Onus of disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or beneficiaries.6. Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to expectancy of life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document basis which policy was issued or revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based.7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on fraud, the premium collected on policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, within a period of 90 days from the date of repudiation.8. Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken by the insurer. The onus is on insurer to show that if the insurer had been aware of the said fact, no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured.9. The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. So, this Section will not be applicable for questioning age or adjustment based on proof of age submitted subsequently.[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and only a simplified version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, for complete and accurate details. ] PROHIBITION OF REBATES (SECTION 41 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938 AS AMENDED BY THE INSURANCE LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015 ):No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer: provided that acceptance by an insurance agent of commission in connection with a policy of life insurance taken out by himself on his own life shall not be deemed to be acceptance of a rebate of premium within the meaning of this sub-section if at the time of such acceptance the insurance agent satisfies the prescribed conditions establishing that he is a bona fide insurance agent employed by the insurer.Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees.Note : “Conditions apply” for which please refer to the Policy document or contact our nearest Branch Office.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS / FRAUDULENT OFFERSIRDAI clarifies to public that
IRDAI or its officials do not i nvolve in activities like sale of any kind of insurance or financial products nor invest premiums.
or financial products nor invest premiums
IRDAI does not announce any bonus.Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint along with detailsof phone call, number.Registered Office:Life Insurance Corporation of IndiaCentral Office, Yogakshema,Jeevan Bima Marg,Mumbai – 400021.Website: www.licindia.inRegistration Number: 512