LIC’s e-Term (UIN: 512N288V01)
LIC’s e-Term is a regular premium non-participating “on-line term assurance policy” which
provides financial protection to the insured’s family in case of his/her unfortunate demise.
This plan will be available through on-line application process only and no intermediaries will
be involved. To purchase this plan please log on to our website www.licindia.in.
Under this plan, there are two categories of premium rates namely (1) Aggregate lives & (2)
Non-smoker lives. For Sum Assured upto Rs. 49 lacs Aggregate category rates only would
apply. For Sum Assured Rs. 50 lacs and above there is an option to choose differential
premium rate for Non-smoker category. However, the application of Non-smoker rates shall
be based on the findings of the Urinary Cotinine test. In all other cases the Aggregate
premium rates shall be applicable.
1. Benefits:
Death Benefit: In case of unfortunate death of the Life Assured during the policy term
Sum Assured shall be payable.
Maturity Benefit: On survival to the end of the policy term, nothing shall be payable.
2. Eligibility Conditions and Other Restriction:
a) Minimum Sum Assured : Rs. 25,00,000 for Aggregate category
 Rs. 50,00,000 for Non-smoker category
b) Maximum Sum Assured : No limit
 (The Sum Assured shall be in multiples of Rs. 1, 00,000/-)
c) Minimum age at entry : 18 years (completed)
d) Maximum age at entry : 60 years (nearest birthday)
e) Maximum cover ceasing age : 75 years (nearest birthday)
f) Minimum policy term : 10 years
g) Maximum policy term : 35 years
h) Proposal on own life only will be considered. Key Man Insurance
(KMI)/Partnership/Employer-Employee Cover will not be allowed.
3. Payment of Premiums:
Premiums are to be paid annually during the policy term, by online under yearly mode
only.
A grace period of one month but not less than 30 days from due date of premium will be
allowed for payment of premiums.
As per the initiatives of the Government of India on Incentivising Digital Payments in
Public Sector Insurance Companies, the following discount under this product shall be
offered for the first five years:
i) 8% discount will be given on first premium
ii) Further for the policy purchased as such in (i) above, discount at the following
rates shall be given for the renewals premiums paid online by the
policyholder:
2
nd year premium: 6%
3
rd year premium: 4%
4
th year premium: 2%
5
th year premium: 2%
iii) Amount of discount shall be limited to Rs.3000/- per policy per year. 
4. Sample Premium Rates:
The sample premium rates (exclusive of taxes) are as under:
For Aggregate category
Annual premium rates per Rs. 1000 Sum Assured
Age
(yrs.)
Term of the Policy (years)
10 15 20 25 30
20 0.92 0.92 0.93 1.00 1.11
30 1.10 1.20 1.39 1.66 1.97
40 2.02 2.48 3.00 3.56 4.19
50 4.86 5.72 6.73 7.90 -
For Non-smoker category
Annual premium rates per Rs. 1000 Sum Assured
Age
(yrs.)
Term of the Policy (years)
10 15 20 25 30
20 0.63 0.63 0.65 0.70 0.79
30 0.77 0.85 1.00 1.21 1.46
40 1.48 1.84 2.25 2.69 3.18
50 3.67 4.34 5.13 6.06 -
5. Revival:
If premiums are not paid within the grace period then the policy will lapse. A lapsed
policy can be revived within a period of 2 consecutive years from the date of first unpaid
premium but before the expiry of policy term, by paying all the arrears of premium
together with interest (compounding half-yearly) at such rate as may be prevailing at the
time of the payment, subject to submission of satisfactory evidence of continued
insurability.
The cost of the medical reports, including special reports, if any, required for the
purposes of revival of the policy, shall be borne by the Life Assured.
The Corporation reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept at revised terms or
decline the revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of discontinued policy shall take
effect only after the same is approved by the Corporation and is specifically
communicated to the Policyholder.
6. Paid-up Value:
The policy shall not acquire any paid-up value.
7. Surrender Value:
No Surrender Value will be available under this plan.
8. Taxes:
Taxes including Service Tax, if any, shall be as per the Tax laws and the rate of tax shall
be as applicable from time to time.
The amount of tax as per the prevailing rates shall be payable by the Policyholder on
Instalment premiums including extra premiums, if any.
9. Cooling-off period:
If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the “Terms and Conditions” of the policy, the
policy may be returned to us within 30 days from the date of receipt of the policy bond
stating the reason of objections. On receipt of the same the Corporation shall cancel the
policy and return the amount of premium deposited after deducting the proportionate risk
premium for the period on cover, stamp duty charges, expenses for medical examination
and special reports, if any.
10. Exclusion:
Suicide:
This policy shall be void if the Life Assured (whether sane or insane) commits suicide at
any time within 12 months from the date of commencement of risk or within 12 months
from the date of revival and the Corporation will not entertain any claim under this policy 
except to the extent of 80% of the premiums paid till the date of death excluding any
taxes, extra premium, if any, provided the policy is inforce.
11. How to purchase LIC’s e-Term
Step-by-step process to buy LIC’s e-TERM Online:
1) Log-on to our website (www.licindia.in) for buying this online product. Click on ‘Buy
Online’. Select e-Term.
2) Choose your desired Sum Assured and the Policy Term (the period for which you
want the cover). The Sum Assured will be paid to the nominee on the unfortunate
event of the death of the policy-holder.
3) Enter Basic details - Name, Age, Gender, Qualification, etc in the form displayed on
your screen.
4) After filling in the details, a premium calculator will calculate the premium for the
chosen parameters. The Premium will depend on the age, gender, term, sumassured, health and tobacco-usage. Lower premium rates are applied to non-tobacco
users for Sum Assured more than 50 Lakhs.
5) Premium payment mode – Annual.
6) Complete the form online with these details and pay premium online – at
www.licindia.in.
SECTION 45 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938:
The provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 shall be as amended from time to
time. The simplified version of this provision is as under:
Provisions regarding policy not being called into question in terms of Section 45 of the
Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 are as follows:
1. No Policy of Life Insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after
expiry of 3 yrs from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.
2. On the ground of fraud, a policy of Life Insurance may be called in question within 3 years
from
a. the date of issuance of policy or
b. the date of commencement of risk or
c. the date of revival of policy or
d. the date of rider to the policy
whichever is later.
For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or legal representative or
nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the ground and materials on
which such decision is based.
3. Fraud means any of the following acts committed by insured or by his agent, with the
intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a life insurance policy:
a. The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured does not
believe to be true;
b. The active concealment of a fact by the insured having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c. Any other act fitted to deceive; and
d. Any such act or omission as the law specifically declares to be fraudulent.
4. Mere silence is not fraud unless, depending on circumstances of the case, it is the duty of
the insured or his agent keeping silence to speak or silence is in itself equivalent to
speak. 
5. No Insurer shall repudiate a life insurance Policy on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured /
beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and
there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or
suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. Onus of disproving is
upon the policyholder, if alive, or beneficiaries.
6. Life insurance Policy can be called in question within 3 years on the ground that any
statement of or suppression of a fact material to expectancy of life of the insured was
incorrectly made in the proposal or other document basis which policy was issued or
revived or rider issued. For this, the insurer should communicate in writing to the insured or
legal representative or nominee or assignees of insured, as applicable, mentioning the
ground and materials on which decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based.
7. In case repudiation is on ground of mis-statement and not on fraud, the premium collected
on policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or legal representative or
nominee or assignees of insured, within a period of 90 days from the date of repudiation.
8. Fact shall not be considered material unless it has a direct bearing on the risk undertaken
by the insurer. The onus is on insurer to show that if the insurer had been aware of the
said fact, no life insurance policy would have been issued to the insured.
9. The insurer can call for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so and no policy
shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are
adjusted on subsequent proof of age of life insured. So, this Section will not be applicable
for questioning age or adjustment based on proof of age submitted subsequently.
[Disclaimer: This is not a comprehensive list of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as
amended by Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and only a simplified version prepared
for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to the Insurance Laws
(Amendment) Act, 2015, for complete and accurate details.]
PROHIBITION OF REBATES SECTION 41 OF THE INSURANCE ACT, 1938 AS AMENDED BY
INSURANCE LAWS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2015:
1) No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to
any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk
relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission
payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking
out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be
allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer:
provided that acceptance by an insurance agent of commission in connection with a
policy of life insurance taken out by himself on his own life shall not be deemed to be
acceptance of a rebate of premium within the meaning of this sub-section if at the time of
such acceptance the insurance agent satisfies the prescribed conditions establishing that
he is a bona fide insurance agent employed by the insurer.
2) Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable
for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees.
Note: “Conditions apply” for which please refer to the Policy document or contact our
nearest Branch Office.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS PHONE CALLS AND FICTITIOUS / FRAUDULENT OFFERS
IRDAI clarifies to public that
 IRDAI or its officials do not involve in activities like sale of any kind of insurance or
financial products nor invest premiums.
 IRDAI does not announce any bonus.
Public receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint along with
details of phone call, number.
“Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation”
Registered Office:
Life Insurance Corporation of India
Central Office, Yogakshema,
Jeevan Bima Marg,
Mumbai – 400021.
Website: www.licindia.in
Registration Number: 512 